New releasing instructions, HOWTO-make-a-release.md (#75)
openssl/tools: HOWTO-make-a-release.md

    -   [Generate the tarball and announcement text](#generating-the-tarball-and-announcement-text) [do not push]
        -   [OpenSSL 3.0 and on](#openssl-3.0-and-on)
        -   [OpenSSL before 3.0](#openssl-before-3.0)
    -   [Update the website locally](#update-the-website-locally) [do not push]
-   [Publish the release](#publish-the-release)
-   [Post-publishing tasks](#post-publishing-tasks)
    -   [Check the website](#check-the-website)
    -   [Send the announcement mail](#send-the-announcement-mail)
    -   [Unfreeze the source repository](#unfreeze-the-source-repository)
    -   [Security fixes](#security-fixes)
    -   [Keep in touch](#keep-in-touch)

# Prerequisites

## Check your access

To perform a release, you must have appropriate access to OpenSSL's
development host, dev.openssl.org.  To test this, try to log in with
ssh:

    ssh dev.openssl.org

You must also check that you can perform tasks as the user 'openssl'
on dev.openssl.org.  When you have successfully logged in, test your
access to that user with sudo:

    sudo -u openssl id

## PGP / GnuPG key

You must have a PGP / GnuPG key, and its fingerprint should be present

> in the file `doc/fingerprints.txt` in the OpenSSL source.

Reviewer: Really, it should have been present in fingerprints.txt in the immediately prior release - so that we have a chain of trust from one release to the next. This does imply some forward planning about who we want to do releases.

Author: Agreed...  do you want me to alter the text somehow?

Reviewer: How about:

You must have a PGP / GnuPG key, and its fingerprint should be present in the file `doc/fingerprints.txt` in the source of the immediately prior OpenSSL release.

Author: Works with me!

## Repositories

You must have access to the following repositories:

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl.git`

    This is the usual main source repository

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git`

>     This is the website repository

Reviewer: Right at the moment this is an OMC only repo. This is a discrepancy if OTC are responsible for doing releases - but don't have all the right access to actually do that.

Author: There are a number of such things where we aren't really prepared for a non-OMC person to do a release.  There are a number of files that shouldn't be directly in the web repository (for example newsflash.txt), but rather somewhere else, and have a website rebuild triggered whenever changes to such files are detected.  We already do this for other web pages...

That's off topic for this PR, though

Reviewer: Yes - this was more of a side note.

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:tools.git`

    This contains certain common tools

## A method for reviewing

For reviewing to take place, the release person and the reviewer need a
way to share changes that are being applied.  Most commonly, that's done
as PRs through Github.  However, if undisclosed security fixes are being
applied, some other more private repository must be used.
Worst case scenario, there have been times where the review process has
been conducted by sending patches (made with `git format-patch`) by email
and receiving approval as a reply.

The release person and the reviewer must have a conversation to confirm
or figure out how review shall be done.

# Pre-publishing tasks

All the actions in this section need to be repeated for each OpenSSL

> version released.

Reviewer: The command we use for freezing the repo, freezes the whole repo so only needs to be done once.

Author: Hmmm, so if I move the section about freezing the repo to Prerequisites?

Reviewer: Yeah, ok

Author: I changed my mind on that, and changed "All" to "Some"

## Freeze the source repository

The day before the release, freeze the main repository.  This locks
out everyone but the named user, who is doing the release, from doing
any pushes.  Someone other than the person doing the release should
run the command.  For example:

    ssh openssl-git@git.openssl.org freeze openssl NAME

## Prepare your repository checkouts

You will need to checkout at least three working trees:

-   one for the website

        git clone openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git website

-   one for extra tools

>         git clone openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-tools.git tools

Reviewer: As well as these tools you also need to have a working version of openssl in your path. Typically this will be on your standard $PATH - but I mention it because its tripped me up several times. I often end up with strange (old or dev) versions of OpenSSL on my $PATH

Author: Ah, ok.  I assume that's to calculate the checksums.

Anything else that you can think of?

(side note: who would anyone *not* have openssl in their `$PATH`?????  :wink:)

Reviewer: You need gpg too

Author: ... and ssh...  and git

Author: Added

-   At least one for the release to be done.  You may have to repeat
    the release tasks that follow more than once, so it's often easier
    to have separate copies for each release branch:

        git clone openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl.git rel-111
        cd rel-111
        git branch --track OpenSSL_1_1_1-stable origin/OpenSSL_1_1_1-stable

>         git checkout OpenSSL_1_1_1-stable

Reviewer: I never create a fresh clone, but always use a pre-existing one. I also don't have a different copy for each version as the text suggests. I'd suggest ensuring the tree is clean before you start.

Author: > I'd suggest ensuring the tree is clean before you start.

The new `dev/release.sh` is designed to avoid that need, FYI

Author: Either way, there are different ways, and it really comes down whatever the release person is comfortable with.  I usually clone multiple copies and do quite a lot in parallel.  Four xterms with mkrelease.pl running in each is quite an impressive sight, let me tell you :wink:

Author: Can we rely on the intelligence of the release person to do something sensible that works for them?  This is more an example of how one can do things than the mandatory set of lines.

Reviewer: Yep

## Make sure that the source is up to date

The person doing the release and the reviewer should both sanity-check

> the source to be released at this point.  Checks to consider includes

Reviewer: s/includes/include/

Author: Done

building and verify that make test passes on multiple plaforms - Linux,
Windows, etc.

For each source checkout, make sure that the CHANGES.md / CHANGES and
NEWS.md / NEWS files have been updated and reviewed.

NEWS.md / NEWS should contain a summary of any changes for the release,

> and for a security release is (often just a list of the CVEs addressed.

Reviewer: Stray ( here

Reviewer: Well I wasn't sure you needed parens at all, so I'd just remove it. But either way lets have balanced parens shall we?? :-)

Author: Fixed

You should also update NEWS in the master branch to include details of
all releases.  Just update the NEWS bullet points - do not change the
release date, keep it as **under development**.

Add any security fixes to the tree.  Commit them but *do not push to any
public repository*.

Make sure that the copyrights are updated.  This script will update
the copyright markers and commit the changes (where $TOOLS stands for
the openssl-tools.git checkout directory):

    $TOOLS/release-tools/do-copyright-year

Obtain approval for these commits from the reviewer and add the
reviewed-by headers as required.
If you have added security fixes, you must seek approval through
extraordinary means as agreed with the reviewer.  This may involve
pushing to a non-public repository you both have access to, or emailing

> patches, or ...

Reviewer: typically using the private github fork

Author: Yeah, I've rewritten this bit to mention Github's security advisory mechanism

Author: Oh, and changed this section to have the same *Do not* and *Do* as other similar sections

with $TOOLS, and is generally called like this:

    $TOOLS/release-tools/mkrelease.pl --reviewer=NAME

The manual for that script is found in `$TOOLS/release-tools/MKRELEASE.md`

## Update the website locally

*The changes in this section should be made in your clone of the openssl
web repo*

Update the news/newsflash.txt file.  This normally is one or two lines.
Just copy and paste existing announcements making minor changes for the date
and version number as necessary.  If there is an advisory then ensure you
include a link to it.

Update the news/vulnerabilities.xml file if appropriate.

If there is a Security Advisory then copy it into the news/secadv directory.

Commit your changes, but *do not push* them to the website repo at this stage.
(the public repo being `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git`)

*Do* push to the repository that's used for review, or email the commit
patches to the reviewer, and wait for approval.

# Publish the release

*BE CAREFUL*  This section makes everything visible and is therefore largely
irreversible.  If you are performing a dry run then DO NOT perform any steps
in this section.

> Check that release has been uploaded properly.  The release tarballs and

Reviewer: Check that *the* release has been..

Author: Fixed

If do-release.pl was used with `--move` be sure to move the announcement
text files away from the staging directory after they have been sent.  This
is done as follows (with VERSION replaced with the version of OpenSSL to
announce):

        sudo -u openssl \
            mv ~openssl/dist/new/openssl-VERSION.txt.asc ~openssl/dist/old

Send out the Security Advisory if there is one.  Copy the file to the
openssl user home directory, and then do the following:

        sudo -u openssl gpg -u 8B3D79F5 --clearsign secadv_FILENAME
        sudo -u openssl mutt -s "OpenSSL Security Advisory" \
                openssl-project openssl-users openssl-announce \
                <~openssl/secadv_FILENAME.txt.asc

Approve the openssl-announce email.  Go to
<https://mta.openssl.org/mailman/admindb/openssl-announce>
and approve the messages.
The administration password needed for approval is held in /opt/mailman/README
on mta.openssl.org

Check the mailing list messages have arrived.

## Unfreeze the source repository.

    ssh openssl-git@git.openssl.org unfreeze openssl

## Security fixes

If this release includes security fixes with a CVE then you should inform

> MITRE about them.  See the instructions at the top of cvepool.txt in omc.

Reviewer: cvepool.txt is a private file only accessible to OMC. We might want to change the location of the instructions - or perhaps just split out the bits related to informing MITRE.

Author: Another PR to figure that out, maybe?

Reviewer: Sure

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git`

    This is the website repository

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:tools.git`

    This contains certain common tools

## PGP / GnuPG key

You must have a PGP / GnuPG key, and its fingerprint should be present
in the file `doc/fingerprints.txt` in the source of the immediately prior
OpenSSL release.

## SSH access

To perform a release, you must have appropriate access to OpenSSL's
development host, dev.openssl.org.  To test this, try to log in with
ssh:

    ssh dev.openssl.org

You must also check that you can perform tasks as the user 'openssl'
on dev.openssl.org.  When you have successfully logged in, test your
access to that user with sudo:

    sudo -u openssl id

## A method for reviewing

For reviewing to take place, the release person and the reviewer need a
way to share changes that are being applied.  Most commonly, that's done
as PRs (for normal releases) or security advisories (for undisclosed
security fixes) through Github.

Security advisories are created using the Github Security tab, and
will generate a private branch, ready to be pushed to.  For more
information on creating new security advisories, please read

> <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

Reviewer 2: It would be nice if you could also adopt the [new markdown link style] which I've been advertising recently to aid my goal of providiing high quality [minimalistic markdown] documentation which looks great both in ASCII and when rendered in HTML. 

[new markdown link style]: <https://github.com/openssl/openssl/commit/6c8149df1fb6fce50a914a70040955d3512b0bd6>
[minimalistic markdown]:   <https://github.com/openssl/openssl/commit/5f8e6c50bd862d6bb0bbd16b4c0b3be841d9cf32>

_Note: this comment itself was created using minimalistic markdown:_

    It would be nice if you could also adopt the [new markdown link style] which I've been advertising recently to aid the goal of providing high quality [minimalistic markdown] documentation which looks great both in ASCII and when rendered in HTML. 

    [new markdown link style]: 
    <https://github.com/openssl/openssl/commit/6c8149df1fb6fce50a914a70040955d3512b0bd6>
    [minimalistic markdown]:   
    <https://github.com/openssl/openssl/commit/5f8e6c50bd862d6bb0bbd16b4c0b3be841d9cf32>

> Security advisories are created using the Github Security tab, and
> will generate a private branch, ready to be pushed to.  For more
> information on creating new security advisories, please read
> <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

Reviewer 2: Here's a suggestion, addressing both comments above:

```suggestion
Security advisories are created using the Github Security tab, and
will generate a private repository, which can be used to work on
fixing the issue via pull requests. It is also possible to add
external collaborators to the private repository, for example the
reporters of the issue or third party companies affected by it.
For more information on [creating a security advisory] resp.
[adding collaborators to a security advisory], please consult the
Github help.

[creating a security advisory]:
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

[adding collaborators to a security advisory]:
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/adding-a-collaborator-to-a-security-advisory>
```

Which will be rendered as

Security advisories are created using the Github Security tab, and will generate a private repository, which can be used to work on fixing the issue via pull requests. It is also possible to add external collaborators to the private repository, for example the reporters of the issue or third party companies affected by it. For more information on [creating a security advisory] resp. [adding collaborators to a security advisory], please consult the Github help.

[creating a security advisory]:
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

[adding collaborators to a security advisory]:
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/adding-a-collaborator-to-a-security-advisory>

While raw links are important for the ASCII version, in the rendered version they should be embedded naturally in the text and the reader should not be distracted by raw links IMHO.

> <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

Author: I blame @mattcaswell for "private branch" (https://github.com/openssl/tools/pull/75#issuecomment-728954256) :wink:

Sure, I can use the minimalistic links.

> <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

Author: Fixed it.  Not exactly like you suggested, but I hope I incorporated your thoughts well enough.

(the public repo being `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git`)

*Do* send the commits to the reviewer and await their approval.

# Publish the release

*BE CAREFUL*  This section makes everything visible and is therefore largely
irreversible.  If you are performing a dry run then DO NOT perform any steps
in this section.

Check that the release has been uploaded properly.  The release tarballs and
associated files should be in ~openssl/dist/new.  They should be owned by
the openssl userid and world-readable.

Copy the tarballs to appropriate directories.  This can be done using the
do-release.pl script.  See $TOOLS/release-tools/DO-RELEASE.md for a
description of the options.  For example:

    sudo -u openssl perl ~openssl/do-release.pl --copy --move

This will copy the relevant files to the website and move them from
`~openssl/dist/new` to `~openssl/dist/old` so they will not seen by a
subsequent release.  Alternatively if you want to perform one release at a
time or copy/move the files manually, see below.

The do-release.pl script will display the commands you will need to issue to
send the announcement emails later.  Keep a note of those commands for

> future reference.

Reviewer: I noticed that the commands it tells you to execute don't include the "sudo -u openssl" bit which is inconsistent with these instructions which always include it.

Author: At the time, most instructions recommended doing `sudo -u openssl -H bash` and run the commands in that shell.  That's how I usually do stuff.  The do-release.pl script is entirely separate (and in another repo, as it should), so won't be fixed in this PR.

Reviewer: Fair enough. I just noticed the inconsistency and thought I'd mention it.

And that they are ready for the website:

        ls /var/www/openssl/source

*For OpenSSL 3.0 and on*, push your local changes to the public source repo
as instructed by `dev/release.sh`.  You may want to sanity check the pushes
by inserting the `-n` (dry-run) option.

*For OpenSSL before 3.0*, simply push your local changes to the public
source repo, and please do remember to push the release tags as well, which
is done separately with the `--tags` option.  You may want to sanity check
the pushes by inserting the `-n` (dry-run) option.

## Updating the website

Push the website changes you made earlier to the OpenSSL website repo.  When
you do this, the website will get updated and a script to flush the Akamai CDN
cache will be run.  You can look at things on www-origin.openssl.org; the
CDN-hosted www.openssl.org should only be a few minutes delayed.

# Post-publishing tasks

## Check the website

Verify that the release notes, which are built from the CHANGES file in the
release, have been updated.  This is done automatically by the commit-hook,
but if you see a problem, try the following steps on `dev.openssl.org`:

    cd /var/www/openssl
    sudo -u openssl -H make relupd

>     sudo -u openssl ./bin/purge-one-hour

Reviewer: This doesn't work. It needs a "-H" after openssl.

Author: Okie

Have a look at the website and news announcement at:

-   <https://www.openssl.org/>
-   <https://www.openssl.org/news/>

Check the download page has updated properly:

-   <https://www.openssl.org/source/>

Check the notes look sensible at:

-   <https://www.openssl.org/news/newslog.html>

Also check the notes here:

-   <https://www.openssl.org/news/openssl-1.0.2-notes.html>
-   <https://www.openssl.org/news/openssl-1.1.0-notes.html>
-   <https://www.openssl.org/news/openssl-1.1.1-notes.html>

## Send the announcement mail

Send out the announcements.  Generic release announcement messages will be
created automatically by the build script and the commands you need to use
to send them were displayed when you executed do-release.pl above.
These should normally be sent from the openssl account.  These are sent to
openssl-users, openssl-project, and openssl-announce.

If do-release.pl was used with `--move` be sure to move the announcement
text files away from the staging directory after they have been sent.  This
is done as follows (with VERSION replaced with the version of OpenSSL to
announce):

        sudo -u openssl \

>             mv ~openssl/dist/new/openssl-VERSION.txt.asc ~openssl/dist/old

Reviewer: It's a bit odd because the do-release command tells you what to do next and gives 2 commands for you to execute (one to to send the emails and one to mv the announcement file) - this text repeats it here but only gives one of them. I think it would be helpful to give the other one as well in case you forgot to take note when the script was run earlier.

Author: It sounds like `do-release.pl` could do with a few fixes, such as instructing *at the end*

Author: I've added the suggested command

Send out the Security Advisory if there is one.  Copy the file to the
openssl user home directory, and then do the following:

>         sudo -u openssl gpg -u 8B3D79F5 --clearsign secadv_FILENAME

Reviewer: I didn't do this step this time because it wasn't relevant, but I noticed that this tells you to use the OpenSSL user's GPG key. But I always sign security advisories with the same key that I sign releases (i.e. with my personal gpg key).

Author: Yeah...  so should I simply remove `-u 8B3D79F5`?

Reviewer: Well, for me at least I always do the signing on my own machine and not on the dev box, so I think the text needs a bit of adjustment.

Author: I simply removed the `-u` option and argument

Reviewer: I'm not sure that's accurate. Now the text says to copy the file to the openssl users home directory and sign it via `sudo -u openssl` (without a `-H` I might note), so that doesn't work if you want to sign using your own key. You should instead sign it *before* transferring it to the openssl user (and sudo is not necessary assuming you have privs to access your own key).

Author: Good point!

Author: I rewrote this quite a bit, please have a look

The day before the release, freeze the main repository.  This locks
out everyone but the named user, who is doing the release, from doing
any pushes.  Someone other than the person doing the release should
run the command.  For example:

    ssh openssl-git@git.openssl.org freeze openssl NAME

## Prepare your repository checkouts

You will need to checkout at least three working trees:

-   one for the website

        git clone openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git website

-   one for extra tools

        git clone openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-tools.git tools

    The resulting directory will be referred to as `$TOOLS`

-   At least one for openssl source

        git clone openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl.git

    If you're doing multiple releases in one go, there are many ways to deal
    with it.  One possibility, available since git 2.5, is to use `git
    worktree`:

        (cd openssl;
         git worktree add ../openssl-1.1.1 OpenSSL_1_1_1-stable)

## Make sure that the openssl source is up to date

The person doing the release and the reviewer should both sanity-check
the source to be released at this point.  Checks to consider include

> building and verify that make test passes on multiple plaforms - Linux,

Author: Fixed

Windows, etc.

For each source checkout, make sure that the CHANGES.md / CHANGES and

> NEWS.md / NEWS files have been updated and reviewed.

Author: Okie.  I made it slightly differently than what you propose, but the gist is the same

> NEWS.md / NEWS should contain a summary of any changes for the release,

Author: Fixed

> and for a security release is (often just a list of the CVEs addressed).

Author: Okie-

> and for a security release is (often just a list of the CVEs addressed).

Author: Fixed

You should also update NEWS in the master branch to include details of
all releases.  Just update the NEWS bullet points - do not change the
release date, keep it as **under development**.

Add any security fixes to the tree and commit them.

Make sure that the copyrights are updated.  This script will update
the copyright markers and commit the changes (where $TOOLS stands for
the openssl-tools.git checkout directory):

    $TOOLS/release-tools/do-copyright-year

Obtain approval for these commits from the reviewer and add the
reviewed-by headers as required.

*Do not push* changes to the public repo at this stage.
(the public repo being `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl.git`)

*Do* send the auto-generated commits to the reviewer and await their

> approval.

Reviewer: If there are no security fixes then there should be no problem with pushing CHANGES/NEWS updates and copyright year updates - and in fact I usually do. Obviously if there are security fixes then that changes things.

Author: Yes?

Reviewer: Probably I made this comment against the wrong line. I meant to point out that the "Do not push changes to the  public repo" line is not strictly accurate.

Author: If you read the parenthesis as well, it *is* accurate.

Author: I can see how the nomenclature is confusing, though.

I've used `final` as a remote in my repos, to have a uniform way for a command line that does the final merge, perhaps that would be a fitting nomenclature?  Or perhaps just being more specific, saying "public openssl repo" rather than the mere "public repo"?

Reviewer: > If you read the parenthesis as well, it is accurate.

Err no, its not. If we're not doing a security release then you *can* push CHANGES/NEWS and do-copyright year updates (which is the opposite of what the instructions state), and I usually do. If security fixes are involved then you can't

Author: Ah, you mean like that...  yeahok.  I usually wait with that final push 'til "Publish the release" further down...  But OK, I'll rephrase that a bit

Author: Fixed

    This is the usual main source repository

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:openssl-web.git`

    This is the website repository

-   `openssl-git@git.openssl.org:tools.git`

    This contains certain common tools

## PGP / GnuPG key

You must have a PGP / GnuPG key, and its fingerprint should be present
in the file `doc/fingerprints.txt` in the source of the immediately prior
OpenSSL release.

## SSH access

To perform a release, you must have appropriate access to OpenSSL's
development host, dev.openssl.org.  To test this, try to log in with
ssh:

    ssh dev.openssl.org

You must also check that you can perform tasks as the user 'openssl'
on dev.openssl.org.  When you have successfully logged in, test your
access to that user with sudo:

    sudo -u openssl id

## A method for reviewing

For reviewing to take place, the release person and the reviewer need a
way to share changes that are being applied.  Most commonly, that's done
as PRs (for normal releases) or security advisories (for undisclosed
security fixes) through Github.

Security advisories are created using the Github Security tab, and will
generate a private repository, to which you can add collaborators (the

> reviewer, for instance), and use to fix the issue via pull requests.

Reviewer: "use to fix the issue" doesn't quite sound right

Author: Is "use *it* to fix the issue" be better?  If not, I'd like some help with wording this.

Reviewer: Yes, that's fine

Author: Done

For more information, please read Github's [creating a security advisory],
including the "Next Steps" at the end of that page.

[creating a security advisory]:
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/creating-a-security-advisory>

The release person and the reviewer are allowed to use other means to
share the commits to be reviewed if they desire.

The release person and the reviewer must have a conversation to confirm

> or figure out how review shall be done.

Reviewer: the review?

Author: Fixed

The person doing the release and the reviewer should both sanity-check
the source to be released at this point.  Checks to consider include
building and verify that make test passes on multiple plaforms - Linux,
Windows, etc.

For each source checkout, make sure that the CHANGES.md / CHANGES and
NEWS.md / NEWS files have been updated and reviewed.

NEWS.md / NEWS should contain a summary of any changes for the release,
and for a security release is.  You should also update NEWS in the master
branch to include details of all releases.  Just update the NEWS bullet
points - do not change the release date, keep it as **under development**.

Add any security fixes to the tree and commit them.

Make sure that the copyrights are updated.  This script will update
the copyright markers and commit the changes (where $TOOLS stands for
the openssl-tools.git checkout directory):

    $TOOLS/release-tools/do-copyright-year

Obtain approval for these commits from the reviewer and add the
reviewed-by headers as required.

*Do* send the auto-generated commits to the reviewer and await their
approval.

*Do not push* changes to the main source repo at this stage, if this is a

> secturity release.

Reviewer: I would drop "if this is a security release". There is no need to do things differently for a non-security release vs a security release.

Author: Is there any reason to hold back the push when *not* a security release?

Reviewer: We have never done so previously, so that would be a change. I think it is simpler to keep the process between security vs normal releases as close as possible. I don't see a reason to have them different here.

Reviewer 3: Besides, there is a typo 'secturity'

Author: [sigh] I give in, at least for expedience

            openssl-project openssl-users openssl-announce \
            < /home/openssl/dist/new/openssl-VERSION.txt.asc
    sudo -u openssl \
        mv ~openssl/dist/new/openssl-VERSION.txt.asc ~openssl/dist/old

## Send out the Security Advisory

*The secadv file mentioned in this section is the Security Advisory
that you copied into the web repo, up in the section
[Update the website locally](#update-the-website-locally)*
 
*This section is only applicable if this is a security release*

Start with signing the Security Advisory as yourself:

    gpg --clearsign secadv_FILENAME.txt

Then copy the result to the temporary directory on dev.openssl.org:

    scp secadv_FILENAME.txt.asc dev.openssl.org:/tmp

To finish, log in on dev.openssl.org and send the signed Security
Advisory by email as the openssl user, and the remove it:

    sudo -u openssl mutt -s "OpenSSL Security Advisory" \
            openssl-project openssl-users openssl-announce \
            </tmp/secadv_FILENAME.txt.asc
    rm /tmp/secadv_FILENAME.txt.asc

Approve the openssl-announce email.  Go to
<https://mta.openssl.org/mailman/admindb/openssl-announce>
and approve the messages.

> The administration password needed for approval is held in /opt/mailman/README

Reviewer: Do we really want the location of this to be public? I mean it already is now....but I'm not sure we should keep it that way.

Author: Ok.  Shall I just drop this line, then?

Reviewer: I think so

Author: Done
